docs: add colab tutorial (#1941)
juicedata/juicefs: docs/en/tutorials/juicefs_on_colab.md

---
sidebar_label: Use JuiceFS on Colab with Google CloudSQL and GCS sidebar_position: 4 slug: /juicefs_on_colab
---

# Use JuiceFS on Colab with Google CloudSQL and GCS

[Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com), or “Colab” for short, is a product from Google Research. Colab allows

> anybody to write and execute arbitrary python code through the browser, and is especially well suited to machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
anybody to write and execute Python code in the browser, and is especially well suited to machine
```

learning, data analysis and education.

> Colab supports Google Drive for upload files to or download files from Colab instances. However, in some cases, Google

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Colab supports Google Drive to upload files to or download files from Colab instances. However, in some cases, Google
```

Drive might not be that convenient to use with Colab. This is where JuiceFS could be a helpful tool to allow easily sync
files between Colab instances, or between Colab instance and a local or on-premises machine.

[A demo Colab notebook using JuiceFS can be seen here](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1wA8vRwqiihXkI6ViDU8Ud868UeYtmCo5)
.

> We illustrate the needed steps for using JuiceFS in Colab environment. We use Google CloudSQL as the JuiceFS metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The demo shows the steps that are needed to use JuiceFS in the Colab environment. We use Google CloudSQL as the JuiceFS metadata
```

engine, and Google Cloud Storage (GCS) as the JuiceFS object storage.

For other types of metadata engines or object storages, please refer
to [the metadata engine reference doc](../reference/how_to_setup_metadata_engine.md)
and [the object storage reference doc](../reference/how_to_setup_object_storage.md).

> Many of the steps mentioned here will be quite similar with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of the steps mentioned here are quite similar with
```

> the [getting started doc](../getting-started/for_distributed.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the [getting started document](../getting-started/for_distributed.md)
```

> which you can also use for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which you can also refer to.
```

> ## Summary of steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Summary of steps
```

> 1. Format a `juicefs` file system from any machine/instance which having access to Google cloud resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Format a JuiceFS file system from any machine/instance which having access to Google Cloud resources
```

> 2. Mount `juicefs` file system in a Colab Notebook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Mount JuiceFS file system in a Colab Notebook
```

> 3. Happily storing sharing files cross machines and platforms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Happily storing sharing files across machines and platforms
```

> ## Prerequisite

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> In this demo we will use Google Cloud Platform's CloudSQL and Google Cloud Storage (GCS) as the backbone for creating a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this demo we will use Google Cloud Platform's Cloud SQL and Google Cloud Storage (GCS) as the backbone for creating a
```

> massive high performance file storage system via `juicefs`. It is required that you have a Google Cloud Platform account

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
massive high performance file storage system via JuiceFS. It is required that you have a Google Cloud Platform account
```

to follow this demo document.

> Otherwise, if you have another cloud vendors' resources (for example AWS's RDBS and S3), you can still use this guide as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if you have other cloud vendors' resources (for example AWS's RDBS and S3), you can still use this guide as
```

> Otherwise, if you have another cloud vendors' resources (for example AWS's RDBS and S3), you can still use this guide as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, if you have another cloud vendors' resources (for example Amazon RDS and S3), you can still use this guide as
```

> a reference and with other reference docs provided by `juicefs` to achieve a similar solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a reference and with other reference documents provided by JuiceFS to achieve a similar solution.
```

> You might also want the Colab instance is in the same zone or close to the region where CloudSQL and GCS are deployed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might also want the Colab instance to be in the same region or close to the region where CloudSQL and GCS are deployed,
```

> You might also want the Colab instance is in the same zone or close to the region where CloudSQL and GCS are deployed,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might also want the Colab instance is in the same zone or close to the region where Cloud SQL and GCS are deployed,
```

> to make JuiceFS reaching the best performance. The tutorial should work for a random hosted Colab instance but you might

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to make JuiceFS achieve the best performance. The tutorial should work for a random hosted Colab instance but you might
```

> notice a slow performance due to the latency between the Colab instance and the CloudSQL/GCS regions. To start Colab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
notice a slow performance due to the latency between the Colab instance and the Cloud SQL/GCS regions. To start Colab
```

instaces in a specific region,

> see [instructions for starting a GCE VM on Colab via GCP Marketplace](https://research.google.com/colaboratory/marketplace.html)
> .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
see [instructions for starting a GCE VM on Colab via GCP Marketplace](https://research.google.com/colaboratory/marketplace.html).
```

So in order to follow this guide you will need to have these resources ready:

> * A Google Cloud Platform account ready and also a *porject* created. In our case we will use GCP project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Google Cloud Platform account ready and also a *project* created. In our case we will use the GCP project
```

>   as `juicefs-learning` for the demo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  named as `juicefs-learning` in the demo
```

> * A CloudSQL (Postgres) ready to be used. In this demo uses instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A CloudSQL (Postgres) ready to be used. This demo uses the instance
```

> * A CloudSQL (Postgres) ready to be used. In this demo uses instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A Cloud SQL (for MySQL or PostgreSQL) ready to be used. In this demo uses instance
```

>   `juicefs-learning:europe-west1:juicefs-sql-example-1` as the metadata service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `juicefs-learning:europe-west1:juicefs-sql-example-1` as the metadata engine
```

* A GCS bucket created as the object storage service. In this demo we use
  `gs://juicefs-bucket-example-1` as the bucket to store file chunks.

> * An IAM ServiceAccount or an authrized user account that has write access to the posgtes server and GCS buckets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An IAM Service Account or an authorized user account that has write access to the Cloud SQL service and GCS buckets
```

> ## Detailed Steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Detailed steps
```

> ### Step 1 - Format and mount a juicefs file system folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 1 - Format and mount JuiceFS file system
```

> This step is only need to be done once, and you can choose to do this at any machine/instance where you have good

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step only needs to be done once, and you can choose to do this at any machine/instance where you have good
```

connection and access to your Google Cloud resources.

> In this example I am doing this on my local machine. Firstly you can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This demo shows an example conducted on a local machine. Firstly you can use
```

> `gcloud auth application-default login` to get a local credential ready or you can also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gcloud auth application-default login` to get a local credential ready. When the option `application-default` is used, 
```

> use `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` to setup as json key file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the environment variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` needs to be set up as a json key file.
```

I modify the text a bit based on what we have discussed.

> use `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` to setup as json key file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` to setup as JSON key file.
```

Then you can use [`cloud_sql_proxy`](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-admin-proxy) to open a port (in

> this case 5432) locally so to expose your cloud Postgres service to your local machine:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this case `5432`) locally so to expose your cloud PostgreSQL service to your local machine:
```

```
gcloud auth application-default login

> # Or set up the json key file via GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# and set up the json key file via GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/key
```

> # Or set up the json key file via GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Or set up the JSON key file via GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/key
```

cloud_sql_proxy -instances=juicefs-learning:europe-west1:juicefs-sql-example-1=tcp:0.0.0.0:5432
```

Then use the following command to create a new file system with a name as `myvolume` by using `juicefs format` command.

> Then later we can mount this filesystem in any other machines/instances where you have access to your cloud resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then later we can mount this file system in any other machines/instances where you have access to your cloud resources.
```

> You can download `juicefs` [here](https://github.com/juicedata/juicefs/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`juicefs` can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/juicedata/juicefs/releases).
```

> You can download `juicefs` [here](https://github.com/juicedata/juicefs/releases).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please refer to the ["Installation & Upgrade"](../getting-started/installatioin.md) document to learn how to download JuiceFS.
```

```
juicefs format \
    --storage gs \
    --bucket gs://juicefs-bucket-example-1 \

>     "postgres://postgres:mushroom1@localhost:5432/juicefs?sslmode=disable" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "postgres://postgres:mushroom1@localhost:5432/juicefs?sslmode=disable" \
    # juicefs on the above line is the name of the database created in the Google SQL instance juicefs-sql-example-1 
```
Add an annotation here to explain what `juicefs` means in line 92. Please check if it is correct.

    myvolume
```

> Noticing again, this step above is only need to be done once at any machine you feel like to work on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, this step above only needs to be done once at any machine you like to work on.
```

> ### Step 2 - Mount juicefs file system on colab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 2 - Mount JuiceFS file system on Colab
```

> After you have finished with Step 1 above, then it means you already have a JuiceFS filesystem (called `myvolume` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have successfully formatted the juicefs file system by following Step 1 above, you should have a JuiceFS filesystem named `myvolume` in
```

> this case) is defined and ready to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ready to be used.
```

> So here we open a Colab page and run those command to mount our filesystem into a folder called `mnt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then open a Colab page and run the following commands to mount our filesystem into a folder called `mnt`.
```

> So here we open a Colab page and run those command to mount our filesystem into a folder called `mnt`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So here we open a Colab page and run those command to mount our file system into a folder called `mnt`.
```

> Firstly we download the `juicefs` binary and do the same as Step 1 to get GCP credentials and open cloudsql proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Firstly we download the `juicefs` binary and do the same as Step 1 to get GCP credentials and open Cloud SQL proxy.
```

> Note that the follow commands are run in Colab environment so there is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the following commands are run in a Colab environment, an exclamation mark 
```

> `!` mark in the beginning for running shell command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`!` is in the beginning for running shell command.
```

> Note that the follow commands are run in Colab environment so there is a
> `!` mark in the beginning for running shell command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note
The following commands are run in Colab environment so there is a `!` mark in the beginning for running shell command.
:::
```

> 1. Download `juicefs` to colab runtime instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Download JuiceFS to Colab runtime instance
```

```
! curl -L -o juicefs.tar.gz https://github.com/juicedata/juicefs/releases/download/v1.0.0-beta2/juicefs-1.0.0-beta2-linux-amd64.tar.gz 
! tar -xf juicefs.tar.gz
```

> 1. Set up Google Cloud credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Set up Google Cloud credentials
```

```
! gcloud auth application-default login
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the option `application-default` is used, the environment variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` probably needs to be set up in your terminal.
```

> 1. Open cloud_sql_proxy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Open `cloud_sql_proxy`
```

```
! wget https://dl.google.com/cloudsql/cloud_sql_proxy.linux.amd64 -O cloud_sql_proxy
! chmod +x cloud_sql_proxy
! GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/content/.config/application_default_credentials.json nohup ./cloud_sql_proxy -instances=juicefs-learning:europe-west1:juicefs-sql-example-1=tcp:0.0.0.0:5432 >> cloud_sql_proxy.log &
```

> 1. Mount JuiceFS filesystem `myvolumn` onto folder `mnt`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Mount JuiceFS file system `myvolumn` onto folder `mnt`
```

```
! GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/content/.config/application_default_credentials.json nohup ./juicefs mount  "postgres://postgres:mushroom1@localhost:5432/juicefs?sslmode=disable" mnt > juicefs.log &
```

> Now you should be able to use the folder `mnt` as if it is a local filesystem folder to write and read folders and files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you should be able to use the folder `mnt` as if it is a local file system folder to write and read folders and files
```

in it.

### Step 3 - Loading data at another time or another instance

Now as you have data stored in Step 2 in your JuiceFS file system, you can repeat all the operations mentioned in Step 2

> anytime in any other machines so to have access again to the data previously stored or to store more data into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
anytime in any other machines to access the previously stored data or to store more data into it.
```

> Congratulations! Now you have learned how to use JuiceFS and specifically how to use it with Google Colab to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! Now you have learned how to use JuiceFS with Google Colab to
```

> conveniently sharing and storing data files in a distributed fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
conveniently share and store data files in a distributed fashion.
```
